This repository contains the integrated computational pipeline for discovering novel structural frameworks targeting wild-type EGFR. The study combines machine learning classification, ScaffoldGVAE, and molecular docking validation.

## Installation and Environment
The computational experiments were conducted using Python 3.9.23. All necessary libraries and their exact versions are documented in the environment.yml file. To replicate the environment using Conda, execute the following command:

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate cheminfo
```

## Project Structure and Workflow
The project is organised into systematic sections reflecting the development and implementation of the study:

**1. Descriptors Comparison:** 
This section evaluates different combinations of molecular representations, including ECFP6, Pharm2D, and RDKit physicochemical descriptors. The performance of these feature sets was compared across various algorithms to identify the optimal input for the predictive models.

**2. Machine Learning Building and Development:** The model development followed a three-stage optimisation process
- Model 1: Establishes the baseline performance using cost-sensitive learning to address class imbalance.
- Model 2: Implements data refinement through grey zone filtering (pIC50 7.2–7.8) to reduce label ambiguity and sharpen decision boundaries.
- Model 3: The final optimised version utilising Stratified K-Fold cross-validation and hyperparameter tuning via Optuna.

**3. Load Model:**
This section demonstrates how to load the saved models.

**4. Virtual Screening (Executed on Kaggle)**
Due to the computational requirements of the large-scale generated dataset, the virtual screening phase was performed on the Kaggle platform. After importing the final optimised model (model_3.pkl), we use it to predict the potency of 12,417 unique compounds generated by the ScaffoldGVAE framework.

## Data Availability
The data and computational resources supporting the findings of this study are openly available in Zenodo at 10.5281/zenodo.18853095. Including:
1. Original dataset.
2. Generated dataset.
3. The structural and docking data for the eight final identified therapeutic candidates.

## Citation
If you use this code or the established workflow in your research, please cite the corresponding paper.
